.TH bounce 1
.SH NAME
bounce, bounce-remind \- handle majordomo list subscribers whose mail is undeliverable
.LP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bounce [\-d] [\-f
.I config-file
.B ] [\-majordomo 
.I server-address
.B ] [\-unsub]
.I majordomo-list user-address
.LP
.B bounce [\-d] [\-f
.I config-file
.B ] [\-majordomo 
.I server-address
.B ] \-expire [\-maxage
.I days
.B ] 
.I bounce-address-file
.LP
.B bounce-remind
.LP
.SH AVAILABILITY
Provided with distributions of Majordomo.
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bounce 
and 
.B bounce-remind 
are perl scripts which help list owners
handle subscribers whose mail is bouncing.  Mail is "bounced"
in this context when it is undeliverable because hosts or
addresses are unreachable or because of other mail errors.
.LP
Mail is also "bounced" by the resend script for various administrative
reasons; these bounces are described in 
.BR approve (1).
.LP
When a list owner observes that an email address consistently causes
mail errors, the owner may use 
.B bounce 
to remove the address from the list and place the address on a special
.BR bounces
mailing list.
.LP
.B bounce-remind,
which should be run nightly by 
.BR cron (4M),
sends a message to each of the user addresses on the 
.BR bounces
list, on the chance that the mail error has been corrected.
The message informs the addressee that their mail has been
undeliverable and that they have been removed from one or
more majordomo lists.  It also instructs them how to unsubscribe
from the 
.BR bounces 
list and re-subscribe to the list of their choice.
.LP
.B bounce
can also be used to expire addresses off the 
.BR bounces
list after a predetermined number of days.
.LP
If 
.B bounce
is invoked under a name that contains ``unsub'' it will simply
unsubscribe the offending address from the majordomo list; it
will not place the address on the
.BR bounces
list.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
These options relate to
.B bounce; bounce-remind
takes no arguments or options.
.LP
.TP 10
.B \-d
Debug; print what would be done, but don't do it.
.TP
.B \-f config-file
Use the specified configuration file.  The default is
.BR ~/.majordomo, 
and the format for this file is described in the
.BR CONFIGURATION
section of the
.BR approve (1)
man page.  This file provides the list-owner's password for
each list and the address of the corresponding Majordomo 
server.
.TP
.B \-majordomo server-address
Use this
.IR server-address
for majordomo rather than the address from the configuration file.
.TP
.B \-unsub
Unsubscribes the offending address from the majordomo list,
without entering that address on the 
.BR bounces
list.  This is equivalent to invoking 
.BR bounce 
under a name containing ``unsub''.
.TP
.B \-expire
Expire entries from the specified
.BR bounces
list.
.TP
.B \-maxage days
Expire entries older than 
.BI days.
The default is coded into the
.BR bounce
script as 
.BI $default_maxage
days.  It is set to 21 days in the majordomo distribution.
.LP
.SH OPERANDS
.TP 10
.B majordomo-list
The list from which the offending user-address should be removed.
.TP
.B user-address
The address to which mail is currently undeliverable.
.TP
.B bounce-address-file
The name of the file that contains the 
.BR bounces
list.
.LP
.SH CONFIGURATION
If
.B bounce 
is going to be used only to unsubscribe users, a link can be
created whose name contains ``unsub'' so that users could be
unsubscribed simply by typing
.sp 1
.RS 3
unsub firewalls-digest fury@world.std.com
.RE
.sp 1
for example.
.LP
In any case, a configuration file must exist and must contain
the names of the owner's lists, along with their respective
passwords and the email address of the associated Majordomo
server.  The format of this file is given in the
.B CONFIGURATION
section of the
.BR approve (1)
man page.  The default name for this file is
.BR ~/.majordomo,
and the same file can serve for both the
.B approve
and
.B bounce
scripts.
.LP
The 
.B bounces
list, if it is used, must be created.  It is like any other
Majordomo list excepting that the priority of this list
should be set to 
.B junk
and its owner and sender should be
.B nobody.
Of course, the ``nobody'' mail alias must exist; it is should
be set to /dev/null.  That is,
.sp 1
.RS 3
nobody: /dev/null
.RE
.sp 1
This will spare the human list owner as well as the postmaster
from having to deal with mail bouncing from the 
.B bounces
list.
.LP
A 
.BR cron (1M)
job should be set up to run 
.B bounce-remind
every night.
.B bounce-remind
must run on the same server as the 
.B bounces
list; it mails a message to everyone on the list advising
them that they have been removed from one or more Majordomo
lists and instructs them how to get off the 
.B bounces
list and back on the list of their choice.
.LP
.B bounce
can only expire addresses if it has a copy of the 
.B bounces
subscriber file, so this can either be run on the server
occasionally by the Majordomo administrator or by a cron
job.  It can also be run remotely with a copy of the 
.B bounces
file retrived by the use of the ``who bounces'' command
to majordomo.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/aliases
.TP
.B /etc/majordomo.cf
.PD
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.B majordomo(8),approve(1)
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
Majordomo and most of the ancillary perl code was written by
Brent Chapman <brent@GreatCircle.COM>.
Majordomo is available via anonymous FTP
from FTP.GreatCircle.COM, in the directory pub/majordomo.  This 
man page was written by Kevin Kelleher <fury@world.std.com>.
