.TH digest 1
.SH NAME
digest \- receive a file for a digest, or create and mail a digest
.LP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B digest \-r|R|m|p \-C \-l 
.I majordomo-listname recipient
.LP
.B digest \-r|R|m|p 
[
.B \-c 
.I configuration-file
]
.LP
.SH AVAILABILITY
Provided with distributions of Majordomo.
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The digest script is a perl script which automates the
management of digests of electronic mail.  It can be
run in a standalone configuration or as part of Majordomo.
.LP
It requires two directories: a work directory and an
archive directory.  Incoming email messages are held
in the work directory until they are collected into a
digest.  The digests are created and stored
in the archive directory.
.LP
Incoming email messages are given 
numerical names starting with ``001'' and are numbered in 
order of arrival.  The digests are named according to volume
and number.  For example, the filename ``v01.n028'' indicates
volume 1, number 28 of the digest.
.LP
It should be noted that digest needs a configuration file
to define all of its operating parameters.  If no such
file is specified, digest will use the 
.SB $HOME/.digestrc 
file.
.LP
Several aspects of digest configuration determine how and
when a digest is created.  A digest can be created at
regular intervals (as long as there are incoming messages)
or whenever certain configurable conditions are met.  These
conditions are:  how large the digest can be (in characters),
how long the digest can be (in lines), and how old the messages
in the digest can be (in days).
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-r
Receive an email message via standard input
and place the file into the working directory.
If any one of the conditions for digest creation
are met, create and mail a digest.  These conditions
are the same as those described under option
.BR \-p.
.TP
.B \-R
Similar to
.BR \-r,
except that it will not create a digest.  It simply
places the message in the work directory and stops.
.TP
.B \-m
If there are any numbered files in the working
directory, create and mail a digest.  Store the
digest in the archive directory.  This is the
option used by majordomo's mkdigest command.
.TP
.B \-p
Conditionally creates a digest.  If any one of the
conditions for digest creation are met, the digest
is created and sent.  There are three conditions,
which are connected to three limits:  the digest
size in characters, the digest length in lines, and
the age of the oldest message in days.  If one of the
files is older than the age limit, a digest is created.
If the sum of the messages exceeds either of the size
limits, a digest is created.  The size limit in characters
must be configured; the other two limits are optional.
.TP
.B \-c configuration-file
Use the parameters defined in
.IR configuration-file.
.TP
.B \-C
Read the majordomo configuration file
(either /etc/majordomo.cf or ~majordomo/majordomo.cf)
and the configuration file for the Majordomo list specified in the 
.BR \-l 
option to define operational parameters.  If both 
.BR \-C 
and 
.BR \-c 
options are specified (not recommended) only the 
.BR \-C 
option will be used.
.TP
.B \-l majordomo-listname
This option is ignored if used without the 
.BR \-C 
option. Specifies the Majordomo email list.
.LP
.SH OPERANDS
.TP 10
.B recipient
Email recipient of the digest.  This operand is ignored if used 
without the 
.BR \-C 
option.  It specifies one of the system mail 
aliases created for the Majordomo list named in the 
.BR \-l 
option.
.LP
.SH MAJORDOMO DIGEST CONFIGURATION
When used as a part of Majordomo, digest takes these parameters
from 
.B majordomo.cf
(either /etc/majordomo.cf or ~majordomo/majordomo.cf):
.LP
.PD 0
.B $listdir 
\- the location of the mailing lists
.LP
.B $digest_work_dir 
\- parent directory for the digests' work directories
.LP
.B $filedir 
\- parent directory for archive directories
.LP
.B $filedir_suffix 
\- an optional identifier (may be the null string)
.PD
.LP
Incoming messages for 
.B $listname-digest 
will be held in 
.B $digest_work_dir/$listname-digest.
.LP
Digests will be stored in 
.B $filedir/$listname-digest$filedir_suffix.
.LP
The list's configuration file will be 
.B $listdir/$listname-digest.config.
.LP
Examples of these values are given in 
.SB EXAMPLES, 
below.
.LP
The list's configuration file contains several digest parameters that
are not yet implemented and/or should NOT be changed from their defaults
(blank): 
.B digest_archive, digest_rm_footer, digest_rm_fronter, digest_work_dir.
.LP
The parameters which specifically deal with digest creation
and maintenance are:
.LP
.PD 0
.B digest_name 
\- the title of the digest
.LP
.B digest_volume 
\- volume number
.LP
.B digest_issue 
\- issue number
.LP
.B digest_maxdays
\- age limit in days for oldest message in the digest
.LP
.B digest_maxlines
\- maximum number of lines in a digest
.LP
.B maxlength 
\- maximum number of characters in a digest
.LP
.B message_fronter 
\- text prepended to the digest	
.LP
.B message_footer 
\- text appended to the digest
.PD
.LP
The last three parameters are also used in the configuration of
an ordinary (non-digest) Majordomo list.
.LP
Each digest begins with the a line containing the 
.B digest_name, current date, digest_volume and digest_issue.
.  The digest script will update the issue number in the configuration file.
.LP
A blank line follows, and then the text from the 
.B message_fronter,
if any.  The message fronter may contain the 
.SB _SUBJECT_ 
token, which will be replaced by the subject lines from the messages
in the digest.
.LP
The text in the 
.B message_footer, 
if any, will be appended to the digest.
.LP
To embed a blank line in the 
.B message_footer 
or
.B message_fronter,
put a `-' as the first and ONLY character on the line.  To
preserve whitespace at the beginning of a line, put a `-'
on the line before the whitespace to be preserved.  To put
a literal `-' at the beginning of a line, double it.
.LP
Both message_footer and message_fronter may also use the tokens
.SB $LIST, $SENDER, 
and 
.SB $VERSION, 
which will be expanded to, 
respectively: the name of the current list, the sender as taken
from the from line, and the current version of Majordomo.
.LP
Examples of the aliases usually used with the digest are
given in 
.SB EXAMPLES, 
below.
.LP
The list owner can prompt Majordomo to build a digest by
sending the command 
.LP
mkdigest 
.I digest-name 
[
.I outgoing-address
]
.I digest-password
.LP
to majordomo either via email or from cron.  The cron
command has the format:
.LP
echo mkdigest 
.I digest-name 
[
.I outgoing-address
]
.I digest-password
| mail majordomo@domain.com
.LP
.SH STANDALONE DIGEST CONFIGURATION
The Majordomo distribution comes with a ``digest'' subdirectory.
The sample configuration file is called firewalls-digest.cf.
A file in this format must be used if digest is invoked in
standalone configuration.
.LP
If no configuration file is specified when digest is invoked,
it looks for a file named 
.SB $HOME/.digestrc 
that must be in the same format as the example file.
.LP
The configuration file defines the email addresses of the
sender and recipient of the digest. It also locates the
work and archive directories, the digest's size limit,
and the names of the files that contain the digest's volume,
number, header and footer.
.LP
The easiest way to configure a standalone digest is to copy
the five files (firewalls-digest.*) and edit them to taste.
.LP
Incoming mail is piped to digest with the 
.B \-r 
option. This can be done from some mail-reading programs, through
the command line, or via mail aliases similar to those
found in 
.SB EXAMPLES, 
below.
.LP
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
1. Example values from 
.B /etc/majordomo.cf:
.LP
.PD 0
.B $listdir = ``usr/local/mail/lists'';
.LP
.B $digest_work_dir = ``usr/local/mail/digest'';
.LP
.B $filedir = ``listdir'';
.LP
.B $filedir_suffix ``archive'';
.PD
.LP
If our digest's name is banjo-digest, the work directory will
be /usr/local/mail/digest/banjo-digest; the archive directory
will be /usr/local/mail/lists/banjo-digest.archive.  Note
that these are names of directories, not files.
.LP
2. Typical aliases for Majordomo digests:
.LP
Usually a Majordomo digest is associated to a regular (non-digest)
list.  The digest's name is the regular listname plus ``-digest''.
The list ``banjo'' will have the digest ``banjo-digest''.
.LP
.PD 0
.B banjo-digest-approval: kevink
.LP
.B banjo-digest-outgoing: :include:/usr/local/lists/banjo-digest
.LP
.B owner-banjo-digest-outgoing: kevink
.LP
.B banjo-digestify: ``|usr/majordomo/wrapper digest \-r
.B \-C \-l banjo-digest banjo-digest-outgoing''
.LP
.B banjo-digest: banjo
.PD
.LP
Note that mail to ``banjo-digest'' is routed to the regular list.
The ``digestify'' alias must be added to the regular list's outgoing
alias:
.LP
.B banjo-outgoing: :include:/usr/local/lists/banjo,banjo-digestify
.LP
.SH NOTES
The volume number does not change automatically; it must be
incremented manually.
.LP
For testing/debugging purposes there is a ``hidden'' option
.B -d
that creates the digest as /tmp/testdigest.nnn
(where 
.I nnn
is the current digest number).  Since it is for testing and
debugging purposes, it does not mail the digest, it does not
place the digest in the archive directory, and it does not
update the digest number.
.LP
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 10
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B >0
An error occurred.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/aliases
.TP
.B /etc/majordomo.cf
.PD
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.B majordomo(8)
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
The digest script was written by Brent Chapman <brent@GreatCircle.COM>.
It is available with distributions of Majordomo via anonymous FTP
from FTP.GreatCircle.COM, in the directory pub/majordomo.  This 
man page was written by Kevin Kelleher <fury@world.std.com>.
