.TH resend 1
.SH NAME
resend \- resend messages after evaluation
.LP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B resend 
.B [\-A]
.B [\-C config-file]
.B [\-I file-list]
.B [\-M max-msg-length]
.B [\-R]
.B [\-a passwd]
.B [\-d]
.B [\-f from-addr]
.B [\-h host-name]
.B \-l list-name
.B [\-n]
.B [\-p precedence]
.B [\-r reply-to]
.B [\-s]
.B destination
.LP
.SH AVAILABILITY
Provided with distributions of Majordomo.
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B resend
is a perl script that is usually used to redirect mail messages to
a mailing list after evaluating and parsing the headers. Mail is
"resent" by handing it off to the mailer again with an alternate
destination as specified by the final operand.
.LP
Any message that 
.B resend
doesn't like is sent to the list owner (the
"-f" address, or "<list-name>-owner" if -f isn't used) along with a
comment indicating what "resend" didn't like about it.  To go ahead
and send the message, just feed it to resend without the flag that
caused it to reject it (in other words, if it rejected it because it
was too long, omit the "-M <>" flag; if it rejected it because it was
administrivia, omit the "-s" flag).
.LP
If you specify "-a <passwd>" flag, this "approval" password can be
used in an "Approved: <passwd>" line to override most of the other
checks (those enabled by "-s", "-M", and so forth).  The "Approved:
<passwd>" line can either be one of the mail headers, or the first
line of the body of the message.  If it is in the headers, the rest
of the headers are resent as part of the approved message.  If it is
in the body, the current headers are discarded in favor of the headers
from the original message which should follow the "Approved:" line in
the body.
.LP
The owner of a mailing list can thus post messages that were initially
bounced by adding an "Approved: <passwd>" line and resubmitting the
message.  Any "Approved: <passwd>" line is stripped before the message
is sent to the mailing list, so that list members won't learn the
password.  If the <passwd> argument to the "-a" flag begins with a "/",
it is assumed to be a file name from which the actual password is read.
.LP
You can make a list "moderated" by specifying the "-A" flag.  If the
"-A" flag is set, then any messages not containing a valid "Approved:"
line are sent to the list owner, rather than the whole list.; the
list owner can then review the message, add an appropriate "Approved:"
line, and resubmit them (these last two steps can be done easily with
the "approve" command that comes with Majordomo).  If you specify
the "-A" flag, you must also specify the "-a <passwd>" flag, so that
resend knows what approval password to use.
.LP
If you only want to accept messages from members of a list, you can
use the "-I <file-list>" flag to do this.  "<file-list>" should be a
colon-separated list of files in the $listdir directory (specified in
the config file) that "resend" will check the address in "From:" line
of a message against.  If the address doesn't show up in one of those
files, and the message doesn't have a valid "approved" header on it,
it will be bounced to the list owner.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
The following options can be used with resend:
.LP
.TP 10
.B \-A
Approve; enable list moderation by requiring an Approved: header to be
present in the message before resending. Messages without an Approved:
header will be redirected to the list owner for approval.
.TP
.B \-C config-file
Alternate configuration file; tell resend to use the file
.TP
.B config-file
instead of the default list-name.config.
.TP
.B \-I file-list
Include; ensure that the message sender (as represented in the From:
line of the incoming message) is in one of the file(s) specified in
.BR file-list .
.B file-list
may contain multiple colon separated pathnames. Each pathname should
point to a file that contains a sendmail-style mailing list.
.TP
.B [\-M max-msg-length]
Maximum; Specify the maximum length of the relayed message in octets.
.TP
.B [\-R]
Delete the "Received:" lines in the incoming message header. This can
make the relayed messages considerably shorter at the expense of
losing some potentially interesting debugging information.
.TP
.B [\-a passwd_file]
Specify the pathname of the file containing the approval password for
the list. This password is used to check Approved: headers when
relaying messages to lists that are marked as moderated through the 
.B \-A
option above.
.TP
.B [\-d]
Debug; print what would be done, but don't do it.
.TP
.B [\-f from-addr]
Set the From: address to
.B from-addr
.TP
.B [\-h host-name]
Set the name of the local host to
.BR host-name .
This name will be used in the From: and To: lines when updating the
headers.
.TP
.B \-l list-name
Specify the name of the mailing list as 
.BR list-name .
This option is required, as
.B resend 
uses this name to derive the names
of many other files.
.TP
.B [\-n]
Assign a sequence number to each message as it comes through. The next
sequence number is stored in the file lists/list-name.seq. If the
string $SEQNUM is found in the $subject-prefix configuration variable,
it is replaced with the current sequence number. Thus, a
$subject_prefix of "($LIST $SEQNUM)" would render a Subject: line of
(list-name sequence-number).
.TP
.B [\-p precedence]
Set the Precedence: header to 
.BR precedence .
.TP
.B [\-r reply-to]
Set the Reply-To: header to
.BR reply-to .
.TP
.B [\-s]
Administrivia; Search the message for strings commonly found in
administrative messages send to majordomo mailing lists (e.g.
subscribe, unsubscribe). If these are found in the first 10 or so
lines of the message, the message will be relayed to the list owner
instead of being sent on to the mailing list.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP 10
.B destination
The alias to which to redirect the message if it is a proper list
submission.
.LP
.SH CONFIGURATION
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/aliases
.TP
.B /etc/majordomo.cf
.TP
.B lists/list-name.config
.PD
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.B majordomo(8),approve(1)
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
Majordomo and most of the ancillary perl code was written by
Brent Chapman <brent@GreatCircle.COM>.
Majordomo is available via anonymous FTP
from FTP.GreatCircle.COM, in the directory pub/majordomo.  This 
man page was written by Shane McCarron <ahby@themacs.com>.
